- Now let us introduce ourselves to JavaServer Pages,
which is the JSP, which is of course
the second bit of our course.
But the first thing to understand is
why do you need a JSP when you already have an HTML?
So let's understand the problems
that we have with HTML pages.
The first of the things is it allows you
to render static data alone.
There is no option to write out
any kind of dynamic data on an HTML page.
If you remember in our search use case of our application,
in order to resolve this issue,
we had proposed a workaround solution
where we read an entire HTML template as a string,
manipulated that string to replace certain portions,
and then wrote that entire string back to the client.
Nobody will do this in the industry projects today.
Everybody uses a JSP.
That was just a workaround in order to solve
that problem at that point in time.
That's because if you start doing an I/O operation
to read and write HTML templates back and forth,
it's going to be a time-consuming process,
and it'll pull down the performance of your application.
Another thing that is to do with JSPs,
let's say you don't have a JSP and you have an HTML,
you could stuff all your HTML with the CSS code
directly inside a servlet and write it back to the client.
But even if you do that, it's going to be a painful process.
Specially if your HTML file is very huge.
Writing and stuffing all the code inside a servlet
is really going to be a painful process.
Moreover, in some organizations that are
specialized UI developers dedicated to
only HTML and CSS development.
So, asking them to stuff all that code inside a servlet
is really not going to be appropriate,
because they may not be equipped with core Java API
let alone the servlet's code.
So these problems that we face with HTML pages
is going to definitely lead us to find out a solution,
which will help us generate dynamic content.
And that's exactly where you have the concept of a JSP.
JSP allows you to create dynamic content.
What is dynamic content?
Let's take a look at this website.
This is LinkedIn, and it shows you three sections.
There's a newsfeed that probably
gets updated an hourly basis,
and there's a left page showing me
my network connections, et cetera,
and the right side I also have advertisements,
which are completely customized
according to the kind of user I am.
That is dynamic content.
Everything that happens on this application
is a customized response with the respect to the user
that is accessing this application.
Let's take another example.
Times of India, do you see the date?
That's the date for 17th October,
then there are top news stories flashing across the globe.
This gets updated every now and then.
There are advertisements and there are other sections
on the page, which are customized completely
according to the user looking at this website.
Dynamic content is a must in web applications.
You cannot build any application today
which does not help you generate dynamic content.
And that's exactly why we are going to use JavaServer Pages.
So let us look at the features of a JSP.
Let's say this is your page.
And this is called some static code,
which is in the form of HTML elements.
Of course it will have HTML elements like input boxes,
hyperlinks, images, radio boxes, checkboxes, et cetera.
And to the static code, we're going to bind
the dynamic data that's coming out
from your server-side objects through the app server.
This essentially means that a JSP
will allow you to write both HTML plus Java code.
And that's exactly how you can make your page dynamic.
JSPs have a file extension of .jsp
and they get executed at the server side
and then are rendered to the client.
JSP can work with a scripting language.
As for this course, we're going to restrict ourselves
to the Java scripting language.
However, you can also choose JavaScript as a language
on your JSP and code with it.
JSPs come equipped with a lot of interesting features,
like Expression Language and JavaServer Page's Tag Library.
Expression Language is a very simplified syntax
of navigating through your entire graph of Java objects
of server side, with a very easy-to-go syntax on the JSP.
Not only does it navigate your objects,
but it also helps you to do a lot of computations,
comparisons between operands, et cetera.
JavaServer Pages Tag Library on the other hand
is a huge bundle of many tags, which you can directly
embed on your JSP and when your JSP gets executed,
that tag is going to run some Java code behind the scenes.
This is a very useful utility because instead of writing
lengthy code statements on your JSP page,
you can just embed a tag there,
and it'll do the rest of the job for you.
In the next video, we look at the basic JSP elements
to work with, so that we get started on JSP.